	玉堂(Zoeng1 Juk6tong4)'s preface:
	Zoeng1 Juk6tong4's preface
    原夫五方土性毗毗，柔致。生其g者，嗜欲Z言因之各e。此必然之理也。夫不通Z言，情何由_，不R文字，言何由通。自碇型馔ㄉ蹋彼此o不_之[，必有人焉。之音文字，以通Z言亦必然之菀病；蛟唬通商不始於朝，何前代o翻g成，是又不然。稽之《Y・王制》所d，象寄狄L之，m有明文，然q但指其人，而言未L著成也。至《威秘》所o，外方言文字Hx奇，不一而足。其之f部如是，tr之u有成可知矣。我自_P招仆商人，分部最多，v史亦久而Z言之通，以英省Ｇ按朔o《英Z撮要》等，但裱刹痪，Z焉不，差之毫，以千里。凡有志v求者，每苦o善本可守，至t之久而唐子景星音始出。唐子生LF城，x性`敏，少游R澳英Z言文字，因留心r樟⒅据成一以便通商之稽考。但分Te，卷帙浩繁，一r未能卒I迨延伍}浙，四方英Z者，不僦付Iv解者粝榇。唐子其┒z其`也。於是Q志取前未竟之，急m成之。凡二年而稿。祟}曰《A英音》，今⒏敦挢悖抱卷|余。余捧檄九，E竽十d，地香港，一可航，r有T使官l砬索者，得以晤`於Z言之g。已久H知其梗概，然o稽考，尚多未得其。今x唐子所A英音，分Te，指，莫不l分|析，至吹唇音，陨嘁簦心榉郑尤l前人所未l，\榱英Z之津梁也。余嘉乎唐子立意之厚，用力之苦，取法之善，均可不朽。因I其起散，Z於端而w之，F是者辛加意焉，吾用之oF矣。
	
	玉堂 signed

　　The characteristics of people from different countries differ greatly therefore their desires are heterogeneous as well as their languages. Since meaningful communication cannot be conducted without languages and writing, there has to be a threat of mutual unintelligibility throughout the years of trading history between China and foreign countries and the mutual understanding of languages through an explanation of the pronunciation of the language is a must. Someone might argue that the trading was not started in this dynasty, how come there was no similar book of translation. This is not quite true. For example in The Book of Rites・Rule of King (《Y・王制 [lai5 gei3 wong4 zai3]》). A kind of translator position named 象寄狄L ([zoeng6 gei3 dik6 dai1], representing people from different countries and the translator who could interpret their languages) was recorded and as stated in The Secret Book of the Mighty Dragon(《威秘(lung4 wai1 bei3 syu1)》), there are great varieties of foreign languages. Thus, there were indeed books that wrote about foreign languages. Since the commencement of trading in Caton, English constituted the largest proportion in terms of population, history, and language. Formerly, there indeed are books like The Essentials of English (《英Z撮要 [jing1 jyu5 cyut3 jiu3]》), yet their selection of lexicon was not of finery and the language within them was unclear, hence a minor mistake would lead to an immense misunderstanding. And those who are willing to learn the language have found themselves unable to get their hand on a reliable textbook. It was true until Mr Tong Gingsing published his book that explained the pronunciation of the language. Mr Tong was born in F城 ([tit3 sing4], the iron city, also known as 香山 [hoeng1 saan1], roughly today’s Zhongshan and Zhuhai) and gifted with an agile mind. He was once lived in Macau and studied the English language there and decided to compose a volume of books in this language for the reference of commercials as he was keen on social affairs. Since the books are large in volume and categorizations, he was not able to finish it immediately before he went to have a Grand Tour around Hokkien and Zhejiang. On his travel, he witnessed many mistakes demonstrated by a wide range of English learners and his guidance was urgently needed. Mr Tong was annoyed by the consultation but also sympathized with their difficulties, so he was dedicated to finishing the books as soon as possible. Two years later the manuscript was completed and named A Pronunciation Explanation of Chinese and English (《A英音(waa4 jing1 jam1 sik1)》). Now the books were ready to be printed and Mr Tong ask for my comments. 
	I served as a military general in Kowloon for about a decade where the post within the sailing range from Hong Kong. From time to time the foreign diplomats and officers who ask me for printings and calligraphies, found themselves hampered by the language. I could roughly decipher their meanings after all these years but most of them remain unintelligible for there was no book for reference. Now I read the A Pronunciation Explanation of Chinese and English edited by Mr Tong, the categorizations and corrections in this volume are all well-organized. Specifically, the labial sound, retroflex, etc. are recorded and taught for the first time, thus making this volume a great tool for learning the language. I praise his immortally ambitious intention, industrious efforts, and effective methodologies. In short, I respectively believe that this treatise will be of limitless applications.

窍(Ng4 Soeng1)’s Preface:

	窍's preface
         今使越裳I雉，西旅獒，操其土音而碚撸旋沐夫王化而去。c我内地民人初o交共，Z言文字固不必相通也。若乃中外一家，A英方互相Q易，tZ音不同弗能_主客之情，契互何以核名物之怠Ｌ谱泳靶强嘈目季恐A英音一，l分|述於l言成，因成字之，原委疏通而C明之。俾上智之士一了然，中材者流B^自得此何如之，留心世照咭。吾知w家柔h之心，在此V，}世同文之治者亦即此也。行f里流鳎 不而走，其利益於人者，MH儋Q易一端。
	
窍 signed

	Nowadays foreigners came with their indigenous dialects and went back to their countries with the blessings of the empire. They originally had no connection with us, and the languages are not mutually intelligible. If the Chinese and foreign countries were to become a family and trading between Chinese and British was to preserve, the relationship of host and customer could not be conveyed with language unintelligibility, and the numbers of trading could not be revised without understanding writing scripts. Mr Tong Gingsing has done a lot of research and composed a volume called A Pronunciation Explanation of Chinese and English with detailed categorizations and guidance on pronunciations and explanatory knowledge. It was to an extent that those who are smart could understand it in no time and also suitable for those who were not and want to know about current affairs. I acknowledged my country’s care for foreign countries and the willingness to establish an ideal society where language is unified is manifested and published through this volume. I could see it widely used and spreading with benefits beyond trading.  

On Cit3zi6 (切字, also known as Fanqie)
	切字
       外字母共有二十六其中音者，∫粽叨十。而音^∫橛戎兀所所言若o音不不成字，且不成音。彼∫籼刂音以成音耳。字母只有二十六而千f化皆拇顺觥Ｆ渌^字母者乃即字瓣也。h字只有八瓣而外字竟有二十六瓣，似h之文字比之外文字更易明晰。惟是h文字瓣乃o音相合而成字，而外字瓣本身有一定之音，因其音乃相合而成字，故中言Z之中多有音而o字，惟外字c音相B，有音必有字，一音可以一字相鳌Ｆ溟g或有其字而字o解法者，亦有之切音之法肇自西域。h人承西域故切法中c外彼此均同一樱h文八瓣化oFc外文字二十六瓣化oF其理本一。所分e者，h文有S多W渺之字之不不解其字x而亦不R其字何音；而外多有W渺之字，W者m不R其解而亦能知其音。故以外文字音h文q易；而以h文音外文字^y，兹因以h字音，外字多有其音而o其字，不得不衿渥钕嘟音之字傍加一口v⒏髯志列，一定切法俾^者易於晰[，t因音考字，因字考x，思^半矣。

	Among the 26 letters of foreign language, there are 6 loud sounds (音[hoeng2 jam1], presumably vowels) and 20 muted sounds (∫[aa2 jam1], presumably consonants). And loud sounds are of greater value than muted sounds. Without loud sounds, all writings and speaking wound make no sense. Thus, a sound was composed by loud sounds with the help of muted sound, and hence the millions of varieties that come from the 26 letters. And the so-called letters are just the strokes, yet there are only 8 strokes in Chinese while there were 26 in terms of foreign languages. It seems that the words of the Chinese are clearer than those of foreigners’. However, there are no connections between the stokes and the pronunciation of Chinese while the letters of the foreign country bear a certain sound themselves, the words are thus come from the combination of different sounds. So, while in the Chinese language, somethings there are no words for a sound, in foreign language sounds are connected with words. Therefore, if there is a sound, there has to be a word and the word could be transmitted with sound. Sometimes some words could not be deciphered, there is also the fanqie method that came from the west which was learnt by Chinese people from western people. Therefore, the millions of variations from the 8 strokes of Chinese characters should be similar to the 26 letters of the foreign language. The difference is that some Chinese words could not be understood as well as be pronounced, yet while there would be also some foreign words that could not be deciphered, they could still be pronounced. Thus, it would be much easier to render the pronunciation of Chinese words by foreign letters than using Chinese words to record the sounds of foreign words. This is because some sounds of the foreign language do not have the corresponding Chinese words if this way of phonetic marking is to be used. So the only way out is to place a “口” near a word with the closest pronunciation to represent the sound. The method is adopted for readers’ convenience because it would be much easier for readers to study the meaning of words with their sound and forms.

On Pronunciation 
	x法
       大凡xo中外皆同一理，若x者不留意於交字，只字x字，住而不住，不住而住之，不但傍人不R其所云，即自己亦不云渌x也。r中外文字相去甚h，有一h字而外文字出底郑而亦有一外文字g出h文底终撸尤宜。
       今中多有h文一二字以h文一二字而以h文音英Z竟有g出十N字之多。若不O法分e其，定有倒其，倒即人不知喝所^也。譬如h文一字外文字有以三字x者，若x了上勺之住即⑾乱蛔看钕戮涠x。上下Z飧嗖幌嘭注t音不C，人即不解楹我簟Ｉ谱x者使上下三字一夂浅桑nn如珠t音出而文x@矣。此亦如h人x，明句x不可有歇後Z也。故M⒃句之傍一直Q，其相B之便相B，其分嘀即分唷Ｙ伦x者t分嘧x之音自正矣。
     4  又之中多有外字音只可以音_音，不可以字_音者，今M⒃字傍加一c。凡遇有c之字只可⒃字出口音f之，不可⒃字全字x出，m出亦o大碍，但h到底不如不出橛让钣日也。
      5 又外每有一字S咬舌尖而f者，而中字o此等字音，F衿渥罱音之字傍加三角。凡遇此等字赢f字r⑸嗉馍斐升Xf然後h起字便得正音矣。此等字幼铍yW裕m不砸o差缀危但不若再加研究更可精於斯Z也。
      6 又中g有一字S傍有善笳撸⒃字p咬下唇而f，如花x非科等字是也。
      7 又外h之中往往有一字S陨喽h者如北方人f鹤郑是陨嘁簟＝⒃字傍加一圈。凡遇此等字⑸嗉皂上腭即f其字便可得其正焉。此等字陨喽言c不陨喽言，其音m偎差o椎以外文字之即所差甚h甚大也。譬如一字，英ZfY士，Y字陨唷６h人身上之虱，英ZfY士，此Y字照正字x毋庸陨喽h。假h⑹筹之Y字不陨喽f，M不是食勺肿了食虱勺忠。且此Y字原是正舌音，今陨囗上腭而h，q如砝厘Y]C洛黎列等十字本音S⑸嗉忭上X背而f。若十字中在加圈即⑸嗉陨弦欢榷h，其中榉e耳，此等音更宜考清。
       W者研以上E，果能分e便c外人所ho也。
       再中所音多字本S平，而又圈平者咩W味等字，均按省城土音x正，c加口之字不同也。
       音之道古人所y，而以唐音英音尤y。兹所刊之其字甚繁，其音y叶。字音之自知不免，`c一二善W者心而共商之。

	Summary by the author:
	The differences between Chinese and English and guidance on the pronunciation of English.
1. Reading the words one by one without paying attention to the stress and syllables would lead to confusion.
2. Sometimes Chinese has no exact corresponding English words.
3. Some English words would need quite a lot of Chinese words to represent. Solution: a line was drawn beside the Chinese words meaning that they should be read out consecutively.
4. Several sounds of English words have no exact equivalent Chinese words. Solution: a point was put beside the Chinese words and readers should only use the onset of the Chinese pronunciation of such words.
5. There are dental fricative sounds in English that should be pronounced with the teeth biting the tip of the tongue. Solution: a triangle was placed beside the Chinese words with the closest sound and learners should put their tongues between the teeth to correctly pronounce this sound.
6. The marking of labiodental fricative is two vertical strokes beside the word.
7. There is retroflex in the pronunciation in English like how people from northern China would speak “-er”. This kind of sound was marked by a circle beside the word and learners use their tongue to touch their palatal while pronouncing this sound. 
8. A story about mistaking rice and lice.
9. Most words in this book are of levelling sound and pronounced according to the Canton dialect.
